frontend/tests/e2e/README.md, before:

# E2E Testing with Playwright

This directory contains end-to-end tests for MTGA Companion using Playwright.

## ⚠️ CI Status

**E2E tests are disabled in CI** and must be run locally before submitting PRs.

**Why?**
- Wails builds native desktop applications (not web apps)
- Desktop apps require native GUI components (GTK, WebKit, native windows)
- Running desktop apps in headless CI environments with Xvfb is unreliable
- GitHub Actions runners have difficulty with virtual displays and native graphics

**CI Coverage:** Unit tests, component tests, linting, and security scans all run in CI.

## Prerequisites

Before running E2E tests, you need to have the Wails application running:

1. From the project root directory, start the development server:
   ```bash
   wails dev
   ```

2. Wait for the app to be fully loaded (accessible at http://localhost:34115)

## Running Tests

From the `frontend/` directory:

```bash
# Run all E2E tests (headless mode)
npm run test:e2e

# Run tests with UI (useful for debugging)
npm run test:e2e:ui

# Run tests in debug mode with step-by-step execution
npm run test:e2e:debug

# View the last test report
npx playwright show-report
```

## Test Structure

### Smoke Tests (`smoke.spec.ts`)
Basic smoke tests to verify app loads and navigation works.

### Deck Builder Tests (`deck-builder.spec.ts`) - 18 tests
- Navigation and initial state (3 tests)
- Create deck modal (6 tests)
- Draft-to-deck workflow (4 tests)
- Deck builder page (3 tests)
- Error handling (2 tests)

### Quest Tests (`quests.spec.ts`) - 30+ tests
- Navigation and initial state (3 tests)
- Quest list display (4 tests)
- Quest statistics (3 tests)
- Quest status and completion (3 tests)
- Quest filtering and sorting (2 tests)
- Quest details (3 tests)
- Empty state (2 tests)
- Error handling (3 tests)
- Performance and loading (2 tests)
- Visual layout (2 tests)

## Writing Tests

E2E tests should:
- Test complete user workflows from start to finish
- Use data-testid attributes for reliable element selection when possible
- Be independent and not rely on the state from other tests
- Clean up any test data they create

## Configuration

See `playwright.config.ts` in the frontend root for configuration details.

## Troubleshooting

**Test fails with "page.goto: net::ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED"**
- Make sure `wails dev` is running before starting tests
- Verify the app is accessible at http://localhost:34115

**Tests are flaky**
- Check the trace files in `test-results/` for detailed execution info
- Use `await page.pause()` to debug interactively
- Increase timeout values if needed for slower operations

Commit message:

Re-enable E2E tests with improved logging and error handling
Based on research, wails dev CAN run in headless environments with Xvfb.
The issue was we couldn't see the actual build errors.

Improvements:
- Added -v (verbose) flag to wails dev
- Using tee to show output in real-time (prevents GitHub truncation)
- Increased timeout to 120s for first-time builds
- Better process monitoring (detect if wails dies)
- Port status checking (netstat/ss)
- Clearer error messages with visual separators

This should reveal the actual compilation error that's preventing
the dev server from starting.

frontend/tests/e2e/README.md, after:

# E2E Testing with Playwright

This directory contains end-to-end tests for MTGA Companion using Playwright.

## ⚠️ CI Status

**E2E tests run in CI** using Xvfb (virtual display server).

The CI setup:
- Uses Ubuntu 22.04 for webkit2gtk-4.0 compatibility
- Runs Xvfb virtual display on :99
- Starts `wails dev` with verbose output
- Tests connect to http://localhost:34115

If E2E tests become flaky or problematic in CI, they can be disabled and run locally only.

## Prerequisites

Before running E2E tests, you need to have the Wails application running:

1. From the project root directory, start the development server:
   ```bash
   wails dev
   ```

2. Wait for the app to be fully loaded (accessible at http://localhost:34115)

## Running Tests

From the `frontend/` directory:

```bash
# Run all E2E tests (headless mode)
npm run test:e2e

# Run tests with UI (useful for debugging)
npm run test:e2e:ui

# Run tests in debug mode with step-by-step execution
npm run test:e2e:debug

# View the last test report
npx playwright show-report
```

## Test Structure

### Smoke Tests (`smoke.spec.ts`)
Basic smoke tests to verify app loads and navigation works.

### Deck Builder Tests (`deck-builder.spec.ts`) - 18 tests
- Navigation and initial state (3 tests)
- Create deck modal (6 tests)
- Draft-to-deck workflow (4 tests)
- Deck builder page (3 tests)
- Error handling (2 tests)

### Quest Tests (`quests.spec.ts`) - 30+ tests
- Navigation and initial state (3 tests)
- Quest list display (4 tests)
- Quest statistics (3 tests)
- Quest status and completion (3 tests)
- Quest filtering and sorting (2 tests)
- Quest details (3 tests)
- Empty state (2 tests)
- Error handling (3 tests)
- Performance and loading (2 tests)
- Visual layout (2 tests)

## Writing Tests

E2E tests should:
- Test complete user workflows from start to finish
- Use data-testid attributes for reliable element selection when possible
- Be independent and not rely on the state from other tests
- Clean up any test data they create

## Configuration

See `playwright.config.ts` in the frontend root for configuration details.

## Troubleshooting

**Test fails with "page.goto: net::ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED"**
- Make sure `wails dev` is running before starting tests
- Verify the app is accessible at http://localhost:34115

**Tests are flaky**
- Check the trace files in `test-results/` for detailed execution info
- Use `await page.pause()` to debug interactively
- Increase timeout values if needed for slower operations
